Come to have you can throw an exception from it.
So this is a situation in which I would want to throw an exception here.
The business logic which we are doing in this example is that we are adding to amounts of what we are
doing is embattled or adamant no amount of Rupi come a five dollar income of five.
And as of now my program is not ready to accept different currencies so it does not know how broken
we're dollar to rupee or repeated all.
So what we're doing is if the current is NOT match we want to throw an exception.
So what we are doing is if the currencies do not match then we are throwing something called new runtime
exception.
Currencies don't match.
This is how you throw an exception the highlighted line shows how you throw exceptions it's basically
throw new runtime exception of currencies don't match.
I could actually use exception.
Also I've chosen to use runtime exception here but I could have used exception also.
But how do I decide whether to do the exception or runtime exception.
We'll discuss that a little later.
But to be really simple this is how you would throw exception from a specific method.
If you look at this method because I'm passing in different currencies this would throw an exception
it this currencies don't match that the exception that I'm passing in and it would show the place as
well.
What would happen when you throw a check exception from it.
If you look at the exception we are creating a runtime exception an exception is unchecked exception.
So because it's an unchecked exception the calling method which is the method of just calling this the
main method the main method does not need to do anything about this runtime exception.
So what if it does not even need to worry about putting a try catch around it or throwing something
out.
However when you're throwing an exception the situation would change.
For example now if I'm changing the runtime exception in the previous example to exception what would
happen.
What would happen is it would you get a compiler error.
Compiler error would say unhandled exception exception.
Basically what would happen is that this line would start giving you an exception.
So you have two options.
Either you can handle this or you can throw it.
What are the options that we would discuss in the next thing.
So what are the options you have to elmet compilation errors when handling check exceptions.
This example is now throwing a checked exception because I'm throwing exception.
So the first thing I have to do when I actually am throwing an exception is that I have to do it throws.
So I would need to say throws Exception because that because I'm trying a check the exception I need
to declare in my definition that I would be throwing exception.
So here if you look at it now the method is saying OK I'm throwing an exception.
So that's basically what the admin that is doing any method which throws an exception should see in
its signature.
Now the dethroning an exception.
Once you add this line in code then you would see that the main method would start having a compilation
error because the main method is now calling a method which is throwing an exception when a method is
throwing in an exception that basically check the exception.
It means this method has two options.
Now Maine has two options.
Men can either throw an exception throw it again.
It can say I might throw an exception or the other option it has.
It has to put a try catch block on it so it can only handle the exception myself.
So doing it like that and actually printing out something is not really good practice that I'm actually
just doing a system that are being delivered because if the exception happens I have no idea what the
exception which is thrown in here is I dare i have to put in this practice.
Ideally after that and put it to a local logger or an exception manager or something of that kind.
So the two options that we have when we are dealing with a method which is throwing a check the exception
to the amount null is throwing a check the exception so anything is not an exception is a check the
exception.
So this is throwing a check exception.
So the main method which is calling that has two options either it can throw the exception out.
So the main method itself saying I will throw an exception.
I don't want to handle it or it can handle it by using that Cricut block.
To summarize if you want the calling method not to worry about the exception that you are throwing then
you'd create unchecked exception like a new runtime exception then mean there's no need to worry about
what you are throwing because this is Stringer just the one time exception which is an unchecked exception.
So main does not need to worry about that at all.
But if I'm throwing a check the exception like an exception then the first thing is the method itself
should say I'm throwing an exception to when entering an exception I have to declare a thing I've been
through an exception.
Not only that the calling method should decide whether they throw the exception or whether they would
want to handle the exception as it is in here.
So you cannot ignore checked exception to if a method you are calling is throwing a check exception.
Then you should either declare it by saying rules or you would need to handle it by using a try catch
block.
So that's the summary of.
Check the exception and check the exceptions.